consider the history of
story-telling. 

1. We start with the "first wave" which is primarily oral. This is
   perhaps the most important wave of story telling. Its happened
   (according to ??) ???

    You might also argue that cave paintings represent our first
   attempts to tell stories visually, but they don't (to me) express a
   coherant narrative. We have to wait until much later before we
   *see* narratives.

2. The second wave of story telling comes in the form of visual,
   pictoral representations of narratives that extend beyond a simple
   picture. To be a story (to me) there has to be a temporal sequence,
   and we certainly start to see this ???

    There are some very nice hitorical example of pictoral story 
   telling: the BAyeaux tapestry is one I had banged into my head in
   middle-school history.

3. And then we get writing. Writing grew out of pictoral approaches to
   conveying information. Perhaps, first for accounting, but very soon
   it was adapted ...

    Writing was developed ????, perhaps independently in various parts
   of the world, though we don't know that for sure.

    It is perhaps the most successful means of preserving stories that
   we have developed. It created a means to preserve a story, as it
   writ in stone (or literally writ in stone).

    We could call writing the third wave of story telling, and it is
   clearly still progressing. Technology, has (since the invention of
   writing) been a key component of our ability to relay stories to a
   wider audience. Writing tools (paper, pens and so on), then
   printing, and most recently electronic means of writing an
   dissemination.

    Technology has been important for all of our forms of story
   telling. None of them has gone away. We still have oral stories
   (podcasts, radio, audio books and so on). We stil have pictoral


4. Theatre goes back, probably as far as oral story telling. We draw a
   distinction between the two here because an oral narrative is
   conveyed directly from the story teller to the listener, whereas
   theatre is "shown" to the watcher.  Obviously, though, this is a
   very thin and murky line.

   Formally we migth date theatre to the early Greeks, but we can see
   elements of it in Australian aboriginal corroborees suggesting that
   the idea goes back to early hunter-gatherer societies. Maybe
   further back than narrated stories?

   A much more recent development in theatre comes in the form of
   moving pictures. I know that many people will cringe at me bringing
   the two together so crudely, but phenomenologically they are in the
   same class of activity. We watch a story unfold, often told by a
   combinations of scenes and dialogue, rather than explaned by a
   story teller.

   This forth wave: movies, then television,
   formed a massive component of culture in the 20th century. A huge
   amount of a story-telling effort was pushed into these compelling
   narrative forms. They became massively popular. But they are
   struggling now. My kids don't watch TV the way my generation
   did. They spend all their time on the Internet.

5. That brings us to the fifth wave: games. Games have been around for
   as long as we have recorded history. I have a set of 2000-year old
   dice, but we know people played games, sometimes related to
   soothsaying going back even further.

    That relationship to soothsaying is interesting in the context of
   stories. One of the functions of stories is to talk about the
   future, things that might happen. Soothsaying, in as much as it
   isn't deception by a small cotery of priests, is about describing
   possible futures, something animals can't do.

    Games give us a way to generate non-deterministic futures. They
   allow us to introduce randomness into the story, and thus construct
   something that doesn't purely come out of our own heads.

    Many games are not this. Many games are much more simple artefacts,
   but most recently we have seen the rise of the computer game, and
   the best of these (the most highly rated usually) tell a
   story. Sometimes they have a simple linear plot that the player
   follows, including some hurdles along the way to make the story
   interactive. Sometimes the world is "open" and a player makes their
   own story.

    However, the aspect that intrigues me is that games start to create
   hyrids between classes of narratives. They involve oral, simple
   visual and animmated components.

    A simple example of these comes in the form of "choose your own
   adventure" books, which have more recently evolved into experiments
   such as Netflix's "Bandersnatch".

    So if it makes you more comfortable, think of the 5th wave as
   interactive story telling. 

6. Finally we get to the point --- the hybridisation of media. I don't
   want to call this the sixth wave -- it isn't a super-recent
   development -- but mayb e we should?  We have always had some
   element of it. Kids books have often had pictures alongside the
   text. Opera uses music (oral), and visual elements to tell its
   stories.

    However, the thing that happened along-side movies in the 20th
   century was the rise of the graphic novel (comics). These were
   considered trivial by many. But they grew into a sizable niche. And
   to me, they are an incredible art form. The ability to combine art
   (varying from incredibly creative, one off pieces, to mass
   produced, two-colour art) and text (truly embodying the show not
   tell principle), often arranged on pages in non-linear fashion,
   leads to the ability to play with a story in ways that traditional
   novelists could not. What's more, where traditional novels are
   typically the craation of a single author, many graphic novels were
   inherentkly collaborative.
