https://the-artifice.com/comic-books-adults-history-stigmatization/#comment-73233

Fables:
https://the-artifice.com/vertigos-fables-fate-duty-and-redemption-in-the-modern-world/

https://the-artifice.com/society-comic-books-feminist-criticism/#comment-73277



Girl Genius!!!!!!





Women as victims in magic shows wasn't the original idea at all
      - originally male victims



underlying "masculine" female violent actors is the opportunity that
we can value all aspects of females, whether they have 'masculine'
qualities of not ....



comics investigating the fundamental limits of democracy

   democracy is best, but it has problems

   some of the problems are those of implementation

   others are fundamental
   	  - Arrow's theorem
	  - how should liberals, who believe in acceptances, equality,
   	    and a "fair go" interact with people who don't
	  - what does a democracy do when its participants vote
            against democracy
	  - what should an individual do when the majority votes to
            force them to do something (they believe) is unethical

   last one in Civil War
   Superman ??


Western comics have an intimate relationship with the democracies in which they originated. It would be interesting to better understand how the two interact: that is, how the underlying ideas of democracy have influenced superhero stories, and in turn, how superheroes affected our ideas of democracy. That might be most obvious through WWII comics, or through Marvel's Civil War event (and movie). Focusing on Marvel in particular, a core question Civil War asks is how much power a democratic government should have to  control the ethical decision making of individual participants (and upholders) of that democracy? The movie (in particular) appeared (May 2016) at a time when it seems Western democracies were going into crisis. With themes about rebellion from overly controlling governments, did it influence people's thoughts going into Brexit (June 2016) or the Trump election (Nov 2016). Another instance is the ongoing theme in many comics of the deep resilience of participatory forms of government, which we see again in the Marvel Cinematic Universe's End Game. Might that have similar influences?


